Monolith: All kind of operation can be handle in one repo. like login, signup, onboarding
Microservice: Everything should be a service like login, signup, onboarding evrything should be in seperate service.

Kubernetes Architecture:

1. Master Node: ( Head Quater ) ( Control-Plane )
       It has many service that will control or perform any task to worker node. Like a Headquater
          a. Api Server: ( Team Lead )
              It's a communication way to connect for clusters, schechuler and controller management to do assign any task or perform any opperations.
              Can Handle both master node and worker node.

          b. Schedular: ( HR )
              Handle to create/schedule pods and container inside worker node by connected with api server.

          c. etcd:
             Is kind of database that stored the created container state, running state and many more.

	d. Controller Manager: ( Project Manager )
		control that is cluster is running perfactly. is it faced any error or anything.

2. Worker Node:
   It is main part where docker and cluster is running.
	a.Kubelet:
		Manage container and pods that is this working perfectly or not if not then it connect with api gateway to pass the knowledge to it's services.

	b. service proxy:
		to connect and use the pods and container by the user.

Note: 
1. Woker/Master nodes  can connect and comunicate through Container Network Interface ( CNI ) Network .
2. Kubectl or Kube Controller is used to instruct the kubernatives to "what to do" or "what's going on".


Styles to run kubernetes:
1. KubeAdm:
    Can run multiple instance and grouped them into a cluster.
2. MiniKube ( local / Single EC2 )
3. KIND Cluster:
         kubernetes in docker. ( KIND )
         Can run on docker.
4. EKS/AKS/GKE Elastic/Azure Kubernetive server:
         Managed Kubernetive server means you cann't handle kubernetive by your own cloud can handle this.


Flow Items or Resources
 Namespace
 Nginx ( Docker Container ) > POD > Deployment > Service > user
 Nginx ( Docker Container ) > POD > Deployment > Service > user


Understood:
1. namespace
2. pods 
3. deployment
4. scale
5. rolling updates
